Development practices background and scheduled jobs (#202) (#116)
infinum/rails-handbook: Development practices/Background and scheduled jobs.md

> Our goal is to have APIs that process incoming web requests in a timely fashion.

Author: True :)

### Active Job
Active Job is a framework for declaring jobs and making them run on a variety of [queuing backends](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_job_basics.html#starting-the-backend).

To setup Sidekiq as a queuing library for Active Job read [this Wiki](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Active-Job).

## Scheduled jobs
Sometimes a service needs to be run recurrently and not in a HTTP request lifecycle:

- every N (seconds/minutes/hours/days)
- on a certain day of every month
- on a certain hour of every day
- etc...

This is where [sidekiq-scheduler](https://github.com/moove-it/sidekiq-scheduler) comes in handy.
It also provides the `cron` option for specifying when the service will be called if you prefer or require it.

## Sidekiq Monitoring
API's usually require a dashboard interface for the admin users. It makes sense to also include a monitoring tool that has a lot of useful info in regards to background jobs.

You can use [built-in methods](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Monitoring#devise) in your `config/routes.rb` file to enable this feature.
#### _NOTE:_

> Because of nginx, you'll have to copy the Sidekiq [web assets](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/tree/master/web/assets) to the `public/sidekiq` directory.

Reviewer: This is not because of nginx, but because of our nginx setup.

```
location ~ \.(js|css|png|jpg|jpeg|gif|ico|xml|swf|flv|eot|ttf|woff|pdf|xls|htc|svg)$ {
    add_header Pragma "public";
    add_header Cache-Control "public, must-revalidate, proxy-revalidate";
    expires   30d;
}
location ~* \.(eot|otf|ttf|woff|woff2?)$ {
   add_header Access-Control-Allow-Origin *;
   add_header Pragma "public";
   add_header Cache-Control "public, must-revalidate, proxy-revalidate";
   expires    30d;
}
```

we have this setup, which says all assets should be served as a static files, and are searched inside current/public folder. but since sidekiq assets are inside a gem, nginx wont find them...

We can either do what you are suggesting.
we can ask devops to try to do this: https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/FAQ#issue-with-static-asset-serving
or we could create a link to sidekiq assets on deploy https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/issues/260

Author: I like the [asset link solution](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/issues/260#issuecomment-10277420). Should I test it out and write a bit more in this chapter? We could use it always like this imho...feels cleaner than copying the asset files from older projects into `public/sidekiq`

Author: I changed this section of the chapter with both solutions and added a bit more info regarding nginx

#### _NOTE:_
If you have nginx configured to only lookup assets in the `current/public` folder, the Monitoring dashboard will load without the `sidekiq/web` assets. To solve this, you have to create a symlink to the Sidekiq assets folder using the `link_sidekiq_assets` mina task:

```ruby
task :deploy do
  invoke :'git:ensure_pushed'
  deploy do
    invoke :'git:clone'
    invoke :'deploy:link_shared_paths'
    invoke :'bundle:install'
    invoke :'secrets:pull'
    invoke :'rails:db_migrate'
    invoke :'rails:assets_precompile'
    invoke :'deploy:cleanup'

    on :launch do
      invoke :link_sidekiq_assets
      invoke :restart_application
      invoke :restart_sidekiq
    end
  end
end
```

In case your Sidekiq monitoring tool is namespaced behind an authenticated route:

```ruby
authenticate :administrator do
  mount Sidekiq::Web => '/admin/sidekiq'
end
```

then you also need to:

`set :sidekiq_web_namespace, :admin`

in your `config/deploy.rb` file.

### Interesting articles:
* [Which Ruby background job framework is right for you?](https://scoutapm.com/blog/which-ruby-background-job-framework-is-right-for-you)

> * [Background jobs best practices](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Best-Practices)

Reviewer 2: This one is a must read! Could you make that clear somehow?

Author: What do you think about moving some info from the sidekiq wiki page into this chapter? Or, I could create a subchapter (##Best practices), and just paste the link to the wiki pages. This way it's more visible, but it might be very very short as a subchapter :)

Reviewer 2: I think the second suggestion is better, because we would otherwise copy the whole article :D
It doesn't matter if the subchapter would be very short. Maybe just note that this is a must read.

Reviewer: Second suggestion. this way you do not have to keep the info up to date when the wiki gets updated.

Our goal is to have applications that process incoming web requests in a timely fashion.

> Some requests don't just manipulate data from your database, but can:

Author: According to https://painintheenglish.com/case/4723 it's either `e.g.` or `eg`, so I'll go with the latter :)

> Some requests don't just manipulate data from your database, but can:

Reviewer 3: I won't split hairs regarding this, but in this case and in others I'd rather check more reliable sources like the Oxford Dictionary (https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/e-g) because they're the authority in this field and things then aren't left for interpretation.

- send emails
- send push notifications
- execute transactions
- generate PDFs
- interact with 3rd party APIs
- do other long-running requests, eg. updating database indices (Algolia)

In this case, the web request can take up much more of your resources, which will impact the speed of page response times and potentially result in page timeouts during high traffic.

## Background jobs
The solution to these problems is to extract the part that does the heavy-lifting and execute it asynchronously.

> The extracted part is called a *background job* which can be scheduled or executed at the time of the incoming request in another process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A common idiom is to extract time-consuming tasks into units of work called jobs. The main process (the request) can defer (schedule) a job for later execution (in the background).

There are many Ruby projects dealing with background jobs
* Sidekiq,
* DelayedJob,
* Resque,
* ...

After trying them all, we decided on Sidekiq. Sidekiq offers the optimal performance, versatility and support for our purposes.
```

> To get background jobs to work, we need the following infrastructure:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To incorporate Sidekiq into your project, you'll need the following infrastructure:
```

> - database to store jobs - [redis](https://github.com/redis/redis-rb)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- database to store jobs - [Redis](https://redis.io/)
```

> - processor that executes jobs - [sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- processor that executes jobs - [Sidekiq](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq)
```

> Configuring Sidekiq to work with Redis can be found [here](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Using-Redis).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instructions on how to configure Sidekiq to work with Redis can be found [here](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Using-Redis).
```

> After you [setup](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Getting-Started) a worker (background job) you can hook it up wherever is required and choose when it's going to be executed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you [setup](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Getting-Started) a worker (background job), you can hook it up wherever it is required and choose when it's going to be executed.
```

### Error handling

> Another great benefit for using background jobs is improving fault tolerance, especially if you have an API that communicates with another.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another great benefit of using background jobs is improving fault tolerance, especially if you have an API that communicates with another API.
```

We can never be 100% sure that the dependent API works OK, which could cause errors in the database or 500 HTTP errors.

Sidekiq background jobs provide [options](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Advanced-Options#workers) that are defined as class methods which can be used to improve error handling.

### Best practices
Some of the best practices have been covered in the official [Sidekiq Wiki pages](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Best-Practices).

### Active Job
Active Job is a framework for declaring jobs and making them run on a variety of [queuing backends](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_job_basics.html#starting-the-backend).

To setup Sidekiq as a queuing library for Active Job read [this Wiki](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Active-Job).

## Scheduled jobs

> Sometimes a service needs to be run recurrently and not in a HTTP request lifecycle:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes a service needs to be run recurrently and not in an HTTP request lifecycle:
```

- every N (seconds/minutes/hours/days)
- on a certain day of every month
- on a certain hour of every day
- etc...

This is where [sidekiq-scheduler](https://github.com/moove-it/sidekiq-scheduler) comes in handy.
It also provides the `cron` option for specifying when the service will be called if you prefer or require it.

## Sidekiq Monitoring

> API's usually require a dashboard interface for the admin users. It makes sense to also include a monitoring tool that has a lot of useful info in regards to background jobs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
APIs usually require a dashboard interface for admin users. It makes sense to also include a monitoring tool that has a lot of useful info in regards to background jobs.
```

You can use [built-in methods](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Monitoring#devise) in your `config/routes.rb` file to enable this feature.
#### _NOTE:_

> If you have nginx configured to only lookup assets in the `current/public` folder, the Monitoring dashboard will load without the `sidekiq/web` assets. To solve this, you have to create a symlink to the Sidekiq assets folder using the `link_sidekiq_assets` mina task:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have nginx configured to only look up assets in the `current/public` folder, the Monitoring dashboard will load without the `sidekiq/web` assets. To solve this, you have to create a symlink to the Sidekiq assets folder using the `link_sidekiq_assets` mina task:
```
